2/26/2026-

It's my first journal entry in this particular folder. It's going to be needed.

Tonight we got everything that we've gotten do so far actually running properly, up until
actually writing to the .nex file, which is where I'll pick back up as I'm quite sleepy.

I'm thinking that I should have openNexFile(); return the collected input back to append and have append write to the actual file.
We should probably consider moving the input collection
out of openNexFile, as well.


2/27/2026-

After some frustration caused not by my code but by CLion itself, I got
input written to the file! It gets collected and then put into a struct and
then printed to the file from the struct.

I think next I should still considering moving the input collection from
within openNexFile, but that can be the next mission.

I came back and did a bit more work and now I have the program properly printing
data to the file. I got the individual associations printed properly albiet I had to
make a small comprise on the delimiter in that I had planned to use a comma to show distinction
between associations within the braces but I found it much easier to switch it to using a space as a
delimiter.

Maybe I'll do some more work tonight, maybe I won't. Maybe I'll work on something else for a bit.

2/28/2026-

I didn't notice last night but I'm encountering some bugginess when writing multiple associations in that
I don't have any logic for handling multi word single associations yet and so if a given association is a
two words with a space between that actually gets treated as one association per word and throws the loop off.

An immediate fix is to change how I'm giving input and use an underscore in place of a blank space but I'm
not planning to just call that the answer.

I'm thinking getline may be a way forward with the input issue but I need to do some more reading first.

I noticed that the bug was really only in the input collection and that it was formatting the data in the file
correctly regardless so I simply moved the printf statement outside of the loop and have the assocations all
entered on one line. Obviously this has issues but i'm still figuring things out, anyway.

This is my first real C project so some patience will need to be had.

We do seem to be appending some random stuff the file now, so. Again, patience.

A leftover fprintf line in openNexFile was causing the issues!

We added some comments and got rid of some unnecessary code, as well.

3/2/2026-

I did a bit of work tonight; I'm kind of regretting not pausing to journal
a bit here and there as I went but it is what it is.

I set up a multidimensional array that's holding delimiters at the moment
and will hold more tokens as time goes by. I wrote out logic for opening the
.nex file created in storage by the source emitter and loading the file
contents into memory and now I'm at the stage where I start checking them
against organizational tokens, methinks.

I'll probably be done for tonight so I can get to sleep before too long.

3/3/2026-

Tonight I didn't do too heavy of lifting, just cleaning up some of the code that
I wrote yesterday and doing some pseudo coding trying to figure out the
lexing process.

All of the pseudocode is in Lexer.c.

I came back and set up a basic AST page as well.

3/4/2026-

Today I began the daunting task of turning yesterday's brainstorming into actual code. I didn't get very far
yet by any measure, but, it's not a race, either.

We started by replacing the split function with a crawler function. We got a few ifs in and now we need to brainstorm
a bit more.

I need to figure out how to 'advance' workingChar until it hits another name token. Really I think I have at
least a basic idea here; we could have an array of letters (Knowing me I'll probably call it alphas or something),
and if the current working char does appear in there, then we know it's a letter, and if it doesn't, then we identify what it is,
which *should* be a nameToken unless there's a mistake in the input. Obviously checking for what it is after identifying what it
isn't entails a bit more than just doing it, but, one step at a time.


We just did a bit more chicken pecking around on the lexing process tonight, just fleshing a bit more out,
nothing being finished or perfect or even necessarily good by any means. It just is, and it is progress.

Forward is forward, even if it's by baby steps.

3/6/2026-

It's nearly 2 AM so I'm not going to be spending much more time here probably, but I just worked on crawler a
bit more. There are pretty detailed notes about what's going on in the comments and not too much of a need
for me to repeat those here, honestly.

Hopefully I'll get to bed at a decent time and be able to put in some more work when i'm awake!

3/7/2026-

It's 3 AM so I am going to attempt to wind down and get to bed soon
but we just spent some time tonight on going back over the in progress
lexing process and trying to smooth it out a bit. We're up to the associator logic
point and, although what I have before that point is yet to be perfect, it is better
than it was yesterday, which is progress, and progress is good.

I have some pretty detailed comments in the actual code that reflect more details about
what's going on in there on a technical level. I just don't really feel like repeating them
in here.

8:19 PM-

I'm back! After sleeping and moving through and enitre day since my last entry. Time is
timey-wimey indeed.

This evening I smoothed out the associations loop and wrote the loop that calls the
associations loop. There's no promise that any of it is good or even works, but.

Progress it is.

The next thing I need to do is smooth out the returns from associations and what I intend
to do with them inside of crawler. I may need to redo the loop that calls associations
now that I think of that.

After that I need to come up with a clean ending for crawler. And then we'll be done
with a basic version of lexing!

3/8/2026-

I ended up coming back and cleaning up crawler a bit since it was getting a little
hard to manage and some things needed some improving. I do believe it to be much
cleaner now!

I also added a basic memory key: association defintion in SymbolTable.

5:55 PM-

I probably won't spend too much time in here today as it's supposed to be my day off
but I was reading The C Programming Language a bit while my chicken bakes in the oven
and it inspired me to code a bit.

I really just worked on associator logic a bit in the associations loop, nothing big
and it isn't even finished yet. Still not nothing either, though!

3/10/2026-

I've been spending some programming time on other things but came in here today
so that I could just keep everything fresh in my mind and made a few small revisions so
far. I'm not really planning on doing a ton in here tonight but I don't want to stay away
from it for too long, either.

I did work on exporting the data from the associations loop from within a bit, so. There's a bit
of progress for tonight.


3/11/2026, 12:15 AM-
I also went back and added commas between associations back to the source generator because
they're useful and i'm not sure why I was so intimidated by handling not placing a comma
on the last one. It was very simple.

I put the source generator into it's own .c/.h and made main into an actual proper main
that's initiating the other files.

We actually found a rough end point for the crawler process and now I'm trying to get the
process running as intended. Right now it's breaking a few levels into the process but
that's okay; honestly I'm surprised it got as far as it did first try!

It seems we're having difficulty at the first wC assignment as that's where my debug
statments are failing at. I really don't think that it'll be too big of an issue to figure
out but I might wait for tomorrow as I really should be winding down for bed.

We'll see, I guess.

Also I was thinking and is it really nessecary for me to use a semi colon line end delimiter
here? When I could realisitcally just use \n as a delimiter itself.

1:41 AM-
I was gonna go to bed but here I am; I just really want to get this lexing process working.

We got the first wC check to print but we didn't get the next debug statement to print after. I really want to figure
out why but I also really needt o get to sleep, so.

I should probably go with sleep and come back at it fresh tomorrow.

We got all the way to the first letter check! Which seems to be an infinite loop.

I truly need to stop for the night now.

Fixed the loop.


Right now our issue is that we forgot to build increment to actually return tracker. If I can't find a way to keep
it a one line declaration and return both wC and tracker then it's not worth implementing.

I guess making tracker global would work.

12:00 PM (Exactly)-

^^^ Shit like that is what I get for programming while tired.

9:24 PM-
I was actually in here earlier today but it seems I forgot to journal.

I did make tracker a global variable, and now it seems i'm hung up in the letter check.

More when I have more to journal.

I straightened out the mismtaches with the character constants and string literals; I just switched everything
to a character constant. I set up SymbolTable.h a bit differently in repsonse to the changes.

I am still having trouble successfully getting through the lexing crawl and I'm getting redlines that I can't
explain in the associations loop but i'm still pretty confident in saying I'm only a few days away from a finished
lexer and that's very exciting!

3/12/2026-

The issue was that I made tracker global but still required it as a parameter for increment so
tracker = 0 was being used as the argument every time. But I got that fixed and now we
can move on with the lexing process!

I also went through and cleaned up and added more comments for clarity's sake.

3/14/2026-

Tonight I've cleaned up the lexer a bit, getting rid of some logic bugs, unnecessary code,
and cleaning up the unmanageable terminal output. My debugging was getting slightly
out of hand.

I've gotten father in the process! As of the last run, we made as far as the second letter
of the first memory key! There's still a bit more to go but it's the farthest we've been
thus far and quite exciting.

I went back and removed the first for loop because I realized it was wrong. Right now as of
line 203 wC is iterating through everything, it's just the checking logic behind it that
needs worked on now. But alas I am getting tired and don't want to write a bunch of code
that i'll have to fix later.

I think the issue is in our letter check. It's just if wC == alphas[i], which, the
first time around will always be alphas[0], which is 'a'.

Yeah, that's exactly what's happening; everything else in the for loop is
within the if wC == alphas[i] which means it's just looping back to line 203 for
each line because it's not triggering alphas.

Going into alphas and changing the first char to T, the first char in the test input,
confirms this.

I'll give this some thinking.

3/15/2026-

1:16 AM-
thoughts:

What if I put all of the letters to check for into one array element
instead of individual array elements? Would it check true the first time then?


3/16/2026-

It turns out the answer was isalpha from ctype.h, I just didn't know that even existed the last time I was in
here. I am still only like a month into learning this language!

Anyway i got a bit farther into the lexing process today, actually recognizing some letters and I fixed up wC
usage within the assocations loop. This morning was solid progress! But I've already been programming for hours
overall at this point as I was working on Parts&Stock before this and I have other things to do today as well,
so, divide my time I must.

Hopefully i'll be back here later tonight!

3/17/2026-

The last 24 hours haven't really gone as I'd wanted so it's late and I'm just doing some light work;
I moved all of the if statements inside of crawler into a nice and tidy switch statement that is far less
of a headache and it actually gave the information that at some point it is hitting the
default case which it should not be as that indicates that it at some point is not able
to recognize wC as anything at all. But it is more information to move forward with than
I had whenever I started and a place to pick back up at tomorrow!

3/18/2026-

It's the middle of the night and I should be asleep so of course I decided to look at the code
a bit more and I made a few more changes that at least got us farther into the lexing process;
we moved the closing brace on the opening if (isalpha(wC) != true) and added an
if (isalpha(wC) != true && memoryKeyBool == true) after for conditional handling which
got us farther in the process. I don't know why I'm still seeing the repeating char at the end
but maybe tomorrow I'll figure it out.

LoopTracker should be of assistance. I should really wind down for bed though.

Actually, it already showed me a lot tonight; I somehow got some wires crossed and
had two different strategies going. The for loop would work for looping through the file
one char at a time and running a single process each time but that's not what crawler does,
hence the name. Running crawler one time should lex the entire file, so doing a for
loop the size of the file is not the move.

Kinda embarassed it took me so long to see what I was doing.

Anyway.

I threw a while loop around the switch because I realized the switch choice doesn't hold up
as well without the for loop and got a pretty gnarly sigsegv so, that really should be both
my cue to wrap up tonight and where to start again tomorrow/later.

3/19/2026-

We're back! I just got a pretty crazy printout to the terminal to start haha, literally thousands of lines but it's a good starting point;
it seems we're reading through the file and then some, so. That's where we start!

Okay, I got things calmed down and in a bit better place. It seems that right now whenever we reach the while loop we aren't quite at the char we're expecting so the lexer
just can't proceed correctly from there. So, I need to identify the discrepancy, and then handle logic flow a bit better around the while loop.

I ended up pretty much doing a total refactor of the assocations loop which was dearly needed. I still have more work to do
but I'm closer! When we get back i'm going back to the switch in the crawler.

3/21/2026-

I've been tweaking little bugs in the flow and now I've got the crawler switch actually running
and routing to cases; the way that the nametoken case was being handled was no good so
that's where I'm at now.

Honestly I think I need to isolate the associator logic from the associations loop.

I did that and moved workingAssociator the Breakdown struct and went back and did the
same for associations so that neither function needs to return anything, they can
both just be called with the current set or arguments for that pass and then interact
with the structs.

3/22/2026-

12:42 AM-

For some reason line 292 is now printing e (it wasnt when I started tonight), so that's
where I should probably pick back up when I'm fresh. For now I'm tired and frustrated so
that's probably a good stopping point.

3/23/2026-

I went through the lexer line by line and figured out why wC was so far off and got it fixed and now we're getting all the way
through the associations loop! Next I need to add some numeric handling logic and then the lexer should actually, finally done.

What a crazy experience.

We added some isalnum stuff here and there and made it a bit farther and also a bit father back it felt like;
wC is off coming out of the associations loop and I'm thinking that the issue lies in updating tracker as tracker is
printing 16 before the loop but only 18; with the test input I'm using it should be incrementing by at least 6, so that tells me that there's an issue there.

I think it's going to lie in keeping tracker updated, and moving from association to association.

3/26/2026-

Since we're having some sort of indexing issue, I've decided to switch tracker back to a local variable for simplicity's sake, especially considering
that the code that made me want it global in the first place is no longer being used. Might as well!

3/27/2026-

It's been a long month, but the lexer is finally lexing!

I had to scrape out some old not longer useful code from the associations loop
in order to fix the indexing issue, but. I got it going and lexing! Now it needs adjusting
and refining, which will come over time and with integrating the parser.

Woo!! I'm thrilled!!

3/31/26, 12:14 AM-

I've been working on encoding for the next step over the last few days and
it just hasn't involving coding but I came here tonight and setup Parser.c and
Parser.h just because I wanted to, really.

I'm pretty sleepy and need to wake up at a decent time in the morning though,
so, I probably won't be doing much beyond that.

More later today!

4/2/2026-

This morning so far I've written out the switch logic and started covering some
of the fall through logic for the parser as well. It's not perfect by any means but the bones are certainly
there! The switch checks for firsts and then appends a morpheme determined by context
and if it falls through then we proceed with identifying exactly what we're working
with prior to appending to the array in the struct.

It feels like this morning was good progress! The sun and the open window don't hinder
those vibes, either.

We also added the secondaries array to SymbolTable.h, which will be used for determining
lowercase letters that are not included in firsts.

4/7/2026-

1:03 AM:

I haven't done anything too crazy or too heavy tonight, just figuring out the encoding
a bit more and refining the for loop a bit. I set up a proper index value for appending to the
scratch array. I also set up a dead simple for loop for handling uppers that fires before
the morpheme switch.

Our next move is to ensure that if we fall through the morpheme switch that we identify the
letter correctly and append to scratch afterwards before looping back around.

In between this entry and the previous one I did wire up the existing -int version
into the AI codebase and journaled in there instead. I will eventually hit a point where
I'm only in here for refinement and revisions.

4/10/2026-

The parser design so far looks like it needs to be different from the lexer in that we will never directly increment wC, the primary for loop does that by nature.

We need to keep that in mind and probably clean a few things up.

We made some pretty good progress tonight; I cleaned up the logic through the morpheme switch and
got rid of some of the unneesscary stuff that was going on in there and now I need to figure out how I intend to address
when to end the loop and when to not, however, I am quite tired and think I have lost my capacity for brainstorming for the day, so.

That will have to be where I start off next time!

4/12/2026-

3:08AM-
I'm pretty tired so I'm not doing anything crazy and who knows how useful anything I do will
actually be. I think we should put a flag in SourceGenerator.h that we can flip/check
to know if we're going from .nex to .nexcode and then let the logic flow according to
the flag in the Source Generator

Also in Parser we should do our appending within the loop

I wound up doing the flag and the scaffolding of the logic for it in the generator


4:40PM-

I feel like hot garbage today but I still set up a little bit more of the post flag
logic in the source generator, but. I probably won't be doing much else, at least not
for now.


 I wound up creating checker within parser and setting up some of the logic within that
 we made the idx variables global so we need to be very intentional with those.


4/13/2026-

11:52 PM-

I fixed the weird redlines in parser, they were being caused by curly brace wonkyness.

I'm thinking now, should I do some more encoding? I have the non printing values all
used, but that doesn't mean I couldn't take more common multi char lowercase strings
and simply shorten them to shorter lowercase strings, similar to how I first started
before I was doing the non printing values.

4/14/2026-
12:00 AM-
I need to think about what I intend to dowith wC after the switch/ after the switch cases.
Do I want to keep it where it is, or move it back?

I'm pretty sleepy so that's not a choice to make right now, honestly.

We should do prefixes with the upper check

And suffixes in the lower check

11:35 AM-

So far today I've built out more tokens in the switches, and fixed some ifs and such.
We wrote out a good amount of code! I think I've gotten a good majority of the prefixes
handled and now I've moved on to the suffixes in the islower check.

Good shit!

4/15/2026-

Today I've been working on getting more multi letter morphemes encoded and hardcoded
into the tokenizing logic. I reconsidered some of the tokens I had recorded
previously, and shifted towards a simplified mental model for the encoding pattern;
First letter of plaintext, capitalized, follow by a numeric. If we are working
 with {Letter}{Digit}, then if we allow digit to hit 9, we roll back over
 adding the second letter of the working plaintext, capitalized, before the numeric,
 starting numbers at 0. Symbols are also fair game in place of numerics for specialized cases.


4/16/2026-

Today was more work on the tree, but I made a decent amount of progress, at least!

And once I finish this it's all that much closer to being done!

But I've had a long day and I'm pretty sleepy already, so i'm gonna call it quits
for today, probably. Until next time!

4/17/2026-

I've been working on the tree again, but as I barely slept last night, I am far too
sleepy to continue on.

4/18/2026-

Tonight I've finished figuring out the basic tree! Super exciting stuff!

Now we just gotta tighten some stuff and make sure it runs and then afterwards assemble
the translated output from the parser/tree into a .nexcode file!


4/19/2026-

Today was another day of cleaning up braces and such in the trie! We also start chicken
pecking out a 2D mains array in SymbolTable.c

4/20/2026-

More work cleaning up this trie this morning; I gotta be more careful while building stuff like this in the future.

4/21/2026- More cleanup today, but I'm nearly through it now!

4/22/2026-

12:01 AM:

I came back and did some cleaning up in parse. We need to make sure that I add logic for appending
the scratch to export!

10:45 AM-
So far this morning I've been working in the for loops within parse, setting one up for associations. associators,
and memkeys. I set up the writeTarget pointer which allows the program to change the array being written based
on input, and went through the trie and implemented writeTarget

I guess next we could think about how we plan to export back to
the source generator, and then have the source generator create the
bytecode file?

We also still need to back up the lexer associator logic and make
sure it's iron clad as I remember having a mental note
to possibly expect issues from it.

4/25/2026-

It's been a few days of radio silence as my personal life has kept me away from basically all of my
work for that period of time, but. That is neither here nor there.

Tonight I am back in here rereading to start, getting caught back up on where I was
and seeing where I want to proceed to next. That may happen tonight, it may not, I just
wanted to get the gears turning again either way.

It's good to be back, regardless.

The nexcodeflag in the SG is for determning where to get input from.

I've done some light work tonight, going back to the Source Generator and setting up
some skeletal work for bringing in the bytecode version from the parser for creating the
.nexcode file instead of just the .nex file. I created a readBytes function which for now
just sets up sizes of the arrays within Export and then has loops for looping through them.
I need to either write logic for adding delimiters/symbols within the loops in SG,
or make sure they're going into the arrays from parser; my immediate thought is that it will be much more
simple to do it within the loops but I could change my mind.

I came back and made some small changes in the parser with what the checker function is
returning and did some whiteboarding for formatting logic to add the nametokens
and commas into export from the parser side. I'll need to set up some more counts and
it'll take a bit of doing but it's unavoidable.

Good day back!

4/29/2026-

I've been away again due to personal upheaval. I typically try and keep these entries more on the technical side,
but. The reason I've been gone is dealing with a breakup, and I'm taking some time
to find my footing and new routine. But Nexum and Eclectic Intelligence have long been a place
of stability and regularity for me, and will be even moreso moving forward, but my living situation
isn't entirely stable so I need to work on that primarily at the moment.

I did come in here and read some code this morning, just to take sure the gears don't rust
in the meantime.

I will not give this project up in the face of adversity. I've put far too much into it now.


"I choose to live and to
 Grow, take and give and to
 Move, learn and love and to
 Cry, kill and die and to
 Be paranoid and to
 Lie, hate and fear and to
 Do what it takes to move through
 I choose to live and to
 Lie, kill and give and to
 Die, learn and love and to
 Do what it takes to step through"

5/3/2026-

It's been my first day back writing actual code on anything at all since the project. I'm quite happy to be able to
focus my thoughts enough to be back, but I'm not going to push myself too hard this morning. Balance is the key to everything.

At first I spent some time reading back over my notes and code and seeing where I left off, and then tried just jumping back in from there.
I need to add delimiters for the nexcode version and I was toying with adding them within readBytes in the SG but I'm not sure that's the correct
approach; I suspect that I may need to add a "scanning" phase to Parser which identifies the end of the working lexeme for demiliter placement,
and then we can pass that all to the SG instead of just an array of strings.

Wait I forgot in the madness that I whiteboarded some code for adding delimiters SG side and it's still on the board!
I should try that before I do anything else.

5/6/2026-

12:29Am- I didn't do much in the way of actual code writing, but , I did show up.

I wanted to implement the logic written on the whiteboard and was going back over it
and remembering what I was going for whenever I realized the count array idea isn't enough;
I believe a hash table is the actual answer and so that's where I'm at now!

I did make some structs in SymbolTable.h in order to get started with that, but i'm getting pretty
sleepy at this point. I will try to be back after some rest! There's much to be done in the morning.


5/15/2026-

I'm pretty sleepy and life has only gotten more complicated since my last entry, but,
I made some progress tonight setting up the arrays for the words and word counts. I know what
I have at the moment isn't exactly a traditional hash table as I'd discussed before, but I'm
still feeling out ideas here. Nothing needs to be perfect on the first try!

5/19/2026-

This morning I've been working on implementing a proper hash table for storing the keys and values
for the encoding spec. I should pick back up tomorrow on the lowerValues array! I'm thinking
that an array actually may not be the best choice for that, but I've many things to get to today so, until next time!

5/20/2026-
I've had to do a lot of strenuous work today and I'm quite tired so I won't be doing much tonight unfortunately,
but let it be known that I did at least show up.

I cleaned up the loops within the useHashTable function and have run into an issue with using the int j as the index
on an unsigned char array that I need to do some more reading on. I'm also just struggling to keep my eyes open, so, that's
where we are for the night. Maybe i'll be able to come back tomorrow!

5/31/2026-

I've been back in here a bit this morning, I replaced the lowerValues array with an
enum/union setup that I should be able to integrate with the downstream work and is
more robust than the array would've been, anyway.

Not bad for my first day back on this project!

I expanded the lowerValues array to also include keys and keytypes at the struct level.
I built it to be able to do both upper and lower keys, so I'm thinking lowerValues
will be changed into just Values and handle both uppers and lowers, but. I have much more to do  today
so that will probably be for the next session.

It's good to be back!


6/3/2026-

This morning I finished out the Values array! Or, the first version, at least, as I can't promise that
later additions or revisions won't come as the project expands, but. It is where I need it to be at the moment!

6/6/2026-

This morning so far it's only been light work, adding word counts for all of the keys in the
values array within symboltable.h. I thought of building a loop to count them and set the word
counts at startup but I figured it was more effecient to just take the time to hardcode them
instead of spending the same or more time adding something that adds more overhead.

That might be all we do today, it might not.

6/8/2026-

I don't have a ton of time today and won't this week overall so I wanted to be in here for at least a
little while this morning.

I set up a union for handling string value vs hex value for the encoded morphemes,
and next I need to address redoing the lookup loops!

6/13/2026-

I've done a little bit of work in here this morning, but truly not much as I need to get started on the moving process
soon while it's still early. But I did setup a lookup function for values so I can pull
the data from Values and set up the inserting appropriately.

6/24/2026-

I'm playing with idea of replacing the values array with a 2D Array/Matrix that implies the encoded morpheme. For
example, Row A Column 0 holds the entry "Able", which means that "Able" encodes to A0, and vice versa.
The only drawback that I'm seeing so far is that the values array with the structs is able to hold much more robust
information that may be useful. I'm going to build out the matrix model a bit more and see where all it goes and
then decide which one to move forward with from there.

7/13/2026-

My personal life has kept me away from here since my last entry but I am wanting to get back in the routine
of working in here regularly again.

Looking back at my last entry- why don't I set up a complimentary array that holds letter counts?
For example, if array one at A0 holds "Able",  then in array 2 A0 holds "4", and so on.

I set up the counts array and started filling in missing null entries in both arrays. That's where I should
pick back up at tomorrow!

7/17/2026-

I'm in here basically just pecking around a bit late at night tonight;
I finished adding the null entries into the morpheme array!

I'm getting sleepy so I won't be in here for long tonight probably, but next session
we should back up and run the program a few times and remind myself of where exactly I'm
at and where to go next since my personal life has been so crazy as of late.

I can't see that being a bad idea, so.

I went ahead and made the valuesSearch function in Parser.C. I am thinking I will need
to redo the end step of the parsing process as switching the matrix affected the macros I
had in place prior, and this function is the first step of that; it is just a bog
standard 2D matrix lookup that returns the position of the match and with the Nexum
system that is the translated version!

I'm tired.

7/27/2026-

It's been so frustrating that since April my personal life has kept me from making meaningful progress on the things
that matter the most to me, like this. But I do still think about my work every day.

This is such an exhausting project and I'm so far removed and distracted right now that I just need to spend some time
getting to know everything again. But regardless of what caretaking responsibilites are thrust upon me
outside of the IDE I need to be making time to spend working on my projects. These things are the world to me.

I've started my refamiliarization at the source generator since it's the start of the process and made a few small changes;
create had been added into append effectively but i'd still left it as it's own function that was useless so I fixed that
and I also changed append to be an int type so I can return 1 if the file is unable to be loaded.

I also fixed the mrun/prun conflict in main.c.


7/31/2026-

I feel caught up on where we were and tonight went through checker in the parser and changed where writeTarget is
pulling from from the old macros to the values matrix! It's small progress, but it's good progress!

We will still need to set up a hex array and an encoded array, and set up the actual encoding.

8/01/2026-

After some thinking I've come to the conclusion that I actually need to go a bit of a different direction with
 the parser, but I can keep my core design and tweak it a bit in order to do so. What I have written I am proud of, but
 I realized it is not robust enough to handle custom morpheme encoding as the morphemes and identification are hard
 coded.

 I am rewriting the huge checker method in the parser to be more objective. The idea is that we are taking the first letter
 of the word to be encoded, which should be loaded into wC at the time that the checker replacement will be run, and then
 compare that to the macros I made the other night corrosponding letters to rows within the values matrix( A=0, so forth).
 So, if wC == A, we know we are working from row 0 instead of having to identify the row manually. From there we can just
 iterate through until we get a match, but i'm wondering if narrowing down a range within the column may be beneficial as it
 grows. That is a desicion that I will make over time however, for now we will start with the basic iteration. If the second
 letter is n, and the third is d, it'll match And, and know the coordiantes within the matrix which is it's encoded morpheme.

 This should hopefully wind up being more robust and less code overall, so. An all around win.

8/02/2026-

Today was mostly a day off so I'm just in here pecking around a bit before bed, working on newChecker. Something I need
to do in the near future is modularize incrementing wC in parser; right now I'm doing it manually each time and I can
cut out code making it into a function. It shouldn't really be hard for me to do, either.

Maybe i'll start on that tonight.

The issue i'm bumping into immediately is that I'm wC is not loaded from just one place, but jumps from breakdown->memoryKey to breakdown->association.
For now I've set up increment to take a flag which directs it to route to the appropriate logic but if I can find a
better way in the future i'll go with that, if it's really better. This is still an improvement over the original implementation.
Progress is progress.

8/03/2026 12:35 AM-

Still up pecking around, I finished out increment and I've made some progress in newCheck. I'm noot sure It's going to
be 100% correct yet but, as I said earlier, progress is progress.


8/07/22026-

I haven't programmed at all since the night before I lost my mom on the morning of 08/03/2026, but, I'm here tonight.

I'm already tired and haven't been here in days though so I wouldn't expect too much.

I made a bit of progress in starting the match function but I am too sleepy to think as
critically as needed, so, goodnight.

It's a start.

8/10/2026-

I just did some basic work on the morpheme matching in newCheck tonight, creating the verify function in order to modularize
part of the logic within the switch statement!


8/12/2026-

I'm pretty tired, so I'm not doing too much tonight, but I did set up a return for verify and if statemenets to flip
a verify bool into all of the match switch cases.

Even small progress is progress!


8/15/2026-

I did a bit of work tonight, but i'm already exhausted from a long day. So it goes.

I started building an encode function for encoding the matched morpheme that is called from within verify. The encoded
values matrix needed updating to a 2D array matching the other matrix so I started working on that, and now I'm going to
head to bed soon in hopes of being able to do better work tomorrow once rested.

8/18/2026-

Tonight I worked more in verify and encode, more or less finishing out the process for writing the encoded morpheme
to the write target and then commented out checker so I can now go about replacing the calls to that with calls to
newCheck.

8/21/2026-

1:17 PM:

So far all I've done today is basically change writeTarget to writeFlag so that encode can save the conded morpheme to
the correct place within the struct. I also changed the struct it's writing to over to export.

8/25/2026-

I think I've roughly got the 'outline' of the rewrite done and now I'm going from the source generator up and addressing
issues and errors and such; tonight I introduced some dynamic memory within the Lexer and plan to do more as I go along!
It's always exciting to make any kind of progress in here!

I may try and do some more work tonight before the coffee wears off and bed calls my name too seductively.

I think I've gotten Lexer.c updated after the memory changes to the Breakdown struct!

8/27/2026-

I'm up late and my stomach doesn't feel great so I'm just pecking around in here a little bit. I accessed breakdown_init
from Parser and also set up dynamic buffers for export in parser.h and set up an init for that from within parser.c.
I'm not really sure if i'll do much more or not.

I also went through and replaced the check() calls with newCheck() calls

8/29/2026-

So far this morning I've been back in Lexer finishing up the dynamic memory
stuff I added before I go and work on the same in the parser. Every line of
code that gets written brings us a step closer to being done! I'm still just
fighting to get back to where I was before my personal life went sideways
but every day I feel closer and closer to gettingh back there.

I finished out the helper functions for realloc and such in lexer and now
I need to go into the loops and update any append processes, but.

I don't think my dog is willing to wait on me to do all of that before I
take him outside. Maybe I can at least get started, but, I can't ignore doggo!

He let me get through it real quick! What a good boy.


8/31/2026-

I didn't do anything crazy tonight, I just went and cleaned up some old code and started thinking about
dynamic memory for the main array, but now my eyes are super heavy because it's night time and I had an
exhausting day.

Progress is progress.

9/2/2026-

I did a bit of work today again on getting dynamic memory set up for the matrix(es), although I have yet
to finish it. I was working on another project before this and I think it's time for a break; I do plan
to try and find myself back in here later, however!

9/4/2026-

So far tonight I've been cleaning up and reorganzing things in SymbolTable.c/.h; I also created Nexum.h and moved the
dynamic buffer structs into there, as well as some others.

I've also just been sort of jumping around and cleaning up some red lines that popped up as a result of moving stuff
around.

It seems as if the Parser is going to need the most attention next, so, that's likely where I'll be for the next little
bit.

I got through rewritng look and I think I'm too tired to continue.

Goodnight.

9/5/2026-

Tonight I went through and solved every redline left in the program, but I'm already too sleepy for much more.
I should've programmed earlier in the day but I just needed a lazy day and it was a saturday, so.

I'll be back tomorrow.


9/6/2026-

I've been debugging so far today, trying to run the program and then just working through each issue stopping it from
compiling one by one. I've made some pretty good progress going through lexer and polishing things up a bit and
npw i'm in parser, about to working my way through newCheck and match and get those functions sorted out!

I've been at a bit so we may see a break soon but i'll probably work a bit more first still.